=============================================
GroupServer 16.mm — Pastis proffered politely
=============================================

:Authors: `Michael JasonSmith`_;
:Contact: Michael JasonSmith <mpj17@onlinegroups.net>
:Date: 2015-12-15
:Organization: `GroupServer.org`_
:Copyright: This document is licensed under a
  `Creative Commons Attribution-Share Alike 4.0 International
  License`_ by `OnlineGroups.net`_.

..  _Creative Commons Attribution-Share Alike 4.0 International License:
    https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/

.. highlight:: console

------------
Introduction
------------

Of the visible `changes to GroupServer`_ in the Pastis release
the most significant is the new Change email settings page. You
can `get Pastis`_ immediately.

----------------------
Changes to GroupServer
----------------------

The `Email-settings page`_ is now easier to use with mobile
phones. The other major update in this release is the `updated
base packages`_. Finally, there have been some `minor
improvements`_.

.. index::
   single: Profile
   pair: Email; Settings

Email-settings page
===================

The Change email settings page allows people to add email addresses, and
set the addresses they prefer. The page has been updated so it is
**easier to use** with mobile devices, with buttons allowing
people to add and remove addresses from each list of
addresses. Using drag-and-drop between the lists still works for
those on desktop systems.

The underlying code now uses web-hooks and JSON to update the
email settings. This results in a far-faster page than before.

Finally, the dependencies that the Change email settings page had
on ``jQuery.UI`` and Twitter Bootstrap have been removed.

.. index:: Dependencies

Updated base packages
=====================

The Zope2_ application framework, which makes up GroupServer, has
been updated to version 2.13.23 from 2.13.22. The buildout_
system, which controls most of the installation and update
process, has been updated to use `zc.buildout 2.3.1`_.

In addition packages such as dnspython_, enum34_, lxml_,
premailer_, pytz_, Pillow_, requests_, and six_ have also been
updated.

.. _buildout: http://www.buildout.org/en/latest/
.. _dnspython: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/dnspython
.. _enum34: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/six
.. _lxml: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/lxml
.. _premailer: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/premailer
.. _pytz: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/pytz
.. _Pillow: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/Pillow
.. _requests: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/requests
.. _six: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/six
.. _zc.buildout 2.3.1: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/zc.buildout/2.3.1
.. _Zope2: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/Zope2

Minor improvements
==================

* The code that determines if someone **can post** has been
  updated so it is more thoroughly tested.

* The code that provides the **image scaling** now handles some
  errors in a more robust way.

* The **installation script** :program:`gs_install_ubuntu.sh` now
  uses bold and muted text to make the information hierarchy more
  clear.

* All the unit-tests now can be run by the script generated by
  `zc.recipe.testrunner`_::

    $ ./bin/testrunner -v -c -m "gs\..*"

.. _zc.recipe.testrunner:
   https://pypi.python.org/pypi/zc.recipe.testrunner/

----------
Get Pastis
----------

To get Pastis go to `the Downloads page for GroupServer`_
and follow `the GroupServer Installation documentation`_. Those
who already have a functioning installation can `update an
existing GroupServer system`_.

..  _The Downloads page for GroupServer: http://groupserver.org/downloads
..  _The GroupServer Installation documentation:
    http://groupserver.readthedocs.org/

Update an Existing GroupServer System
=====================================

To update a system running the Limoncello (15.11) release of
GroupServer to Pastis (16.mm) carry out the following steps.

#.  Copy the new versions of the configuration files to your
    existing GroupServer installation:

      ::

        $ cp ../groupserver-16.mm/[bivz]*cfg  .

#.  Run ``buildout`` in your existing GroupServer installation:

      ::

        $ ./bin/buildout -N

#.  Restart your GroupServer instance (see
    :doc:`groupserver-start`).

---------
Resources
---------

- Code repository: https://github.com/groupserver/
- Questions and comments to
  http://groupserver.org/groups/development
- Report bugs at https://redmine.iopen.net/projects/groupserver

..  _GroupServer: http://groupserver.org/
..  _GroupServer.org: http://groupserver.org/
..  _OnlineGroups.Net: https://onlinegroups.net/
..  _Michael JasonSmith: http://groupserver.org/p/mpj17
..  _Dan Randow: http://groupserver.org/p/danr
..  _Bill Bushey: http://groupserver.org/p/wbushey
..  _Alice Rose: https://twitter.com/heldinz
..  _E-Democracy.org: http://forums.e-democracy.org/

..  LocalWords:  refactored iopen JPEG redmine jQuery jquery async Rakı Bushey
..  LocalWords:  Randow Organization sectnum Slivovica DMARC CSS Calvados AIRA
..  LocalWords:  SMTP smtp mbox CSV Transifex cfg mkdir groupserver Vimeo WAI
..  LocalWords:  buildout Limoncello iframe
